---
layout: post
title: "Sales Engine Week 1 Retrospective"
date: 2013-02-15 08:59 -07:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/02/sales-engine-week-1-retrospective
tags: [gSchool, sales engine]
---

Now that the first week of Sales Engine is wrapped up, I'm feeling in a better place now than the first few days.  Starting out the project by looking over the specs, it was daunting but I kept my stress relatively low by reminding myself that we a) have a week and a half to complete the project and b) will be taking this one little baby step at a time.  I was also excited to try out programming with MiniTest - I knew that forces you to take little bites in your coding.  I worked with my partner, Shane, to map out how the baby steps we'd need to take to complete the project in Pivotal Tracker, and was ready to get to work.

Once it came to the actual coding, we didn't get off to a strong start.  The first night of the project, we loaded all the files in their respective classes, but soon found out the next morning we were loading them incorrectly for this project - we were drawing on the type of loading we did in Event Reporter, and for this project, each CSV row needed to be an instance of an object.  Both Shane and I thought we had learned enough from previous projects to get this one started on our own, but we really struggled to get the files loaded properly and relied on a lot of help from classmates and Katrina.

After a day extreme frustration and self-doubt, yesterday we were able to actually make some progress with search capabilities and starting on relationships in search functionality across objects.  At this point we've relied less on our instructors for input, and have asked small questions of our classmates when needed, but the logic of this part of the project is making sense to me.  I may have some questions on implementation, but logically I feel sound.  Now that I'm getting the hang of things, I'm also enjoying MiniTest and my rainbow dots of goodness when all my tests pass.  It might take a little longer to code with Minitest, but it's really helpful to make sure your code works straight away and make little tweaks if needed.  I do believe I'm being trained Pavlovian style to feel elation when I see rainbow colored dots.

I would have never thought my biggest roadblock would be loading the damned files, but here we are.  It's one of those things that I couldn't formulate on my own, but now that I look at the code, I think I'm making sense of it correctly, but I will probably still work on talking through it with some of the more experienced classmates or instructors to make sure I have it down before continuing to our next project.  To me, even if the code is correct, there's no sense in handing in a project with the code unless I understand it, or I'm not going to learn anything or progress in upcoming projects.

So far, I feel relatively good about going forward with the relationship portion of the project, and I'm hoping that business intelligence is also not much of a logical or logistical roadblock for me.  The biggest thing I want to work on right now is studying up on when I would use certain techniques, because that's still kind of confusing for me - when would I use an instance method or class method?  When is it best to use an instance variable?  Hash versus array?  Once I see someone's code, I can usually make sense of it, but I get tripped up in writing it myself and making the decision to use this over that.  Honestly though, that's the same way I've been with any language.  When I was learning French or Japanese, I could read it all right, but when it came to speaking it myself, it took a while for actual sentences to come out instead of misplaced or mispronounced words and incorrect grammar.

It's been an interesting experience working in a pair, too.  I'm not sure where I would be with this project if I was working on it independently.  It seems like Shane and I had the same stumbling blocks and for the most part are at the same level with what we're understanding and what's confusing to us.  I know a few of the pairs are groups where one partner is a lot stronger than the other in their current knowledge level and comfort with implementation, but I think Shane and I were pretty well matched.  It is interesting in a pair - I find myself focusing on 'Am I doing too much of this myself?  Does it seem like I'm trying to control our pair, and am I making him feel like he's being cut out?'  I think I've been a little more vocal on when we need help and I'm used to managing a team from my previous job, so I'm trying not to make it feel like I'm managing our team - I want it to be an equal partnership.

I can't believe we've only been in gSchool only three weeks - it feels like it's been far longer.  One of the questions to reflect on is whether I feel like a developer yet, and I can't say that I do.  I am still really frustrated that I couldn't start a project like this without significant help, and I feel like I'm behind where I should be in class.  I've been studying independently but everything we're supposed to know hasn't quite clicked yet.  I am hoping that 'a-ha!' moment comes soon, but even once it does, I think I'll still feel like I'm learning to become a developer.  Hopefully somewhere down the road in this course I'll feel like I can confidently say I am, and I also realize it's not a function of being 'done learning'.  I've never met a single developer who hasn't been learning something new or expanding on their knowledge, and I don't think I'll be any different.  So what's the tipping point of knowing enough that I feel like a developer?  I'm not sure, but I am looking forward to that point.
