---
layout: post
title: "Son of Store Engine Midway Retrospective"
date: 2013-04-12 09:53 -06:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/04/son-of-store-engine-midway-retrospective
tags: [son of store engine, gSchool]
---

It's been quite the week.  We started Son of Store Engine, which takes code from our last project and adds on to it - but we can't sacrifice any of the functionality from the last project in reworking the code.  I am happy that we have a project like this and not everything is built from scratch.  The reality is that most everyone will be working with legacy code when we're done, and this is really good practice for me.  So far, I've found it to be harder than building something from scratch in a lot of respects; I first have to understand what the code is doing (some of it is written in a style I'm not used to).  Then, there have been a few times I've built on top of something or tweaked something seemingly insignificant, and previous functionality has broken, so it's an extremely valuable lesson.

It's been really different in this project for me versus most other projects I've worked on, at least so far.  Most of my last projects (Traffic Spy maybe excepted), I've felt like I've contributed a good percentage of the code base and functionality.  This project, what I've worked on so far, it has felt like I haven't written as much code or functionality as I'd like; it's been a tedious process for a lot of the functionality so far.  I'm hoping that it speeds up some from here, but I will also try to keep in mind what Chad Fowler mentioned in our talk with him today - when working with legacy code, a lot of it can be tedious, and that's just how it is.  I'm hoping I can also learn some common things to look for so I don't get so hung up spending time on what should be small fixes.  For example, I struggled for about an hour yesterday wondering why the functionality I wrote to remove a line item from a cart when the quantity was set to zero wasn't working.  Turns out quantity was being stored as a string and not an integer.  On the plus side, it felt damn good once I got that fix working!

On the last project, I felt relatively confident with Rails (although I still asked Kareem for help a good amount of times when I got stuck, which he was happy to provide), but I actually feel less confident with this project.  I think there's just more we're delving into with this project and I'm picking this up more slowly.  One thing I really have enjoyed is since I have a lot more questions this time that can't really be answered within the team, I've been reaching out more to 'real' developers for an answer, and I've found that in answering my question, they've also taught me other things that I didn't even realize I didn't yet know.  I had what I thought was a quick question for Horace from LivingSocial last night, and in answering it, he taught me about custom routes for controllers beyond the 7 verbs, which actually fascinated me way more than my question.  I'm also really looking forward to mastering the art of using a processor class so that I can have forms for multiple databases on one page; I tried that in my last project but we could only get the functionality working halfway, so we had to rip it out and never had time to implement it properly.

I'm also really looking forward to working with my mentor.  My first mentor had to back out do to time constraints, but I'm set to work with my new mentor, Jim Denton, on Monday after class.  Jim works at Groupon, and I've worked with him before to address questions as they've come up in projects.  He's been super helpful when I've worked with him in the past, so I'm looking forward to working with him as a mentee.  I have a lot of general questions I want to ask (like the processor class), but it will also be really helpful to be able to bounce project ideas off of him and hopefully come up with solutions to problems I don't even know I have yet.
