---
layout: post
title: "gSchool Two Month Retrospective"
date: 2013-03-22 09:03 -06:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/03/gschool-two-month-retrospective
tags: [gSchool]
---

This week was the first time I was introduced to Rails with the Blogger project.  Having programmed in Ruby so far, it was very different to me, especially with respect to how much Rails automatically does for you.  It makes it really helpful that you're not writing a ton of finder methods, joining tables, or having to define a create method, but at the same time the level to which Rails is hands off feels really foreign to me still.  I'm sure I'll feel more acquainted in no time (Ruby felt the same way at first).  It also felt really weird how little 'classical' Ruby we wrote for blogger, and how empty the models were.  Before I started this project, not knowing Rails, I couldn't understand how people could even attempt to be a Rails developer without knowing Ruby, but now I can see why someone might think they could hack it (although I would not recommend it).

It was also interesting to look at the difference between Sinatra and Rails.  In Sinatra, I felt like it was a good middle ground between Ruby and Rails - you still had a lot of responsibility in your hands and were still writing a ton of 'classical' Ruby very manually.  All in all, even though it might feel more comfortable right now, I think I would stick with learning more Rails.  Rails takes a lot of the work out of your hands, and it especially sounds like security is built in to Rails in a way that doesn't come close in Sinatra.  I also really want to become better acquainted with MVC and RESTful development in Rails, so I probably won't use Sinatra much - I don't want anything to get muddled in my mind right now.

I can't believe we're one-third of the way through class already.  It simultaneously feels like we've been here for a really long time, but that really long time has flown by in the blink of an eye.  I'm still amazed at how much I've learned in just two months, and I really am excited to see what we'll be doing in the next four.  I remember thinking a month ago Oh god, what am I going to do for my midway project??  I don't know enough to do that!  I'm beginning to feel more confidence in myself and my abilities, and now seeing all that's possible in Rails, I think I'll be able to come up with something interesting.  My first thought is making a website for my sister - she's a recently licensed massage therapist and always gives me free massages; I'd love to pay her back by building her a site to help her grow her business.  I don't know if I'll be skilled enough by then (I think so), but I'd love to build her a site that at least has a booking portion and a blog portion, and maybe an option to pre-pay for massages or packages.

So, the oft-asked question.  Do I feel like a developer yet?  Almost.  Kind of.  I feel like once I get through this Store Engine project, I will feel a lot closer.  I want to make sure I really do understand Rails once I don't have a tutorial prompting me every step of the way.  I also really want to get better at CSS and basic design - I understand what's going on when I read the HTML & CSS book and try simple exercises on my own, but when I try to put that together in, for example, this blog, it kind of falls apart.  I think part of my respecting the Friday this week will be taking in a Railscast on Bootstrap.  But I do feel like once I have the basics on Rails and design down, I will feel like a very junior junior-level developer.  There's still so much to learn during gSchool (and beyond!), but I'll have some core skills to draw on, and a concrete site I can show to people.  Now am I ready for the big time, jumping in to help build something, say, for a thoughtbot client?  No, but I'm getting there!

Speaking of thoughtbot, that was one of the highlights of my week.  It was really interesting to hear Ben talk about working with clients, how they approach projects, an the structure and approach of their organization.  I'm still not sure what exactly I'd like to do when I graduate, but the consultancy business sounds pretty interesting.  You get to work on a bunch of different projects for a short to medium period of time, and you get to interact with the clients (which I suppose can be a blessing or a curse, depending on the client).  This is something I was interested in when I started gSchool - a lot of tech people are really bad at explaining things to non-tech people, and I'd love to be a part of bridging that gap.

I was also really interested in learning more about the apprenticeship program in Stockholm.  I would love to get a full time job out of gSchool, but if for some reason I feel like I'd like to continue my formal learning for a little longer or I'm not finding something as quickly as I'd like, I would love to look into apprenticing at thoughtbot.  Thoughtbot sounds like a wonderful environment with really passionate programmers, and Stockholm would be wonderful - it's always been my long term goal to hone my skills, get experience under my belt, and try to find a job in Europe somewhere down the road; maybe this could just accelerate that plan!
