---
layout: post
title: "Store Engine Retrospective"
date: 2013-04-05 14:01 -06:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/04/store-engine-retrospective
tags: [gSchool, store engine]
---

By far, Store Engine has been the most exciting project I've worked on.  It was awesome to be able to show my friends and my family an actual site that I'd built - somehow showing them all the awesome output from a command line just doesn't have the same pizzazz.  Not that I didn't work hard on my other projects too, but I felt like I pushed myself even harder for this project and poured myself into it very aggressively.  The final product is something I'm really proud of and I think my team made a great effort.  It really meant a lot too that we were chosen to present our project as a group demo.  It felt so good that not only did we come together and learn a ton, feel like we could all feed proud of our finished product, but that other people recognized the hard work we put in, too.

Having worked on a real Rails project, I think I'm ready to make some changes to the next project I have.  First off, while we started off thinking of what a customer would need to do and thought of the pages we would need, I think we got off track from there.  Next time, I'd really like to focus on the customer experience and let that drive the development kind of from the outside in, and try to do TDD that starts with feature testing and flows down to the model testing instead of building up the model and working to feature testing.  I also am still getting a hang of how to most effectively use MVC to the fullest and most elegant extend - I feel like I was doing a lot of work in the view or controller.  I know that's not the best way to do things, but any time I tried to refactor everything blew up - of course most of what needed the most refactoring was what was built in the last few days of the project, so unfortunately I didn't have a lot of time to spend on it since we had to push to get the project completed.  For my next project I want to start out learning how to better assign the heavy lifting to the model and have it output correctly to the view instead of doing that work elsewhere.

I'm also appreciating more than ever how awesome it is to try 'stretch work' - there were a few times during the project that I tried to tackle something that was a bit out of reach of what I already knew how to do, instead of just sticking to the easy stuff that I had already done.  Some of the time I gave it my all and tried to find answers on my own, and when I couldn't my more knowledgeable teammate was more than happy to step in and help me to find a solution, but I appreciated the patience the group had to let me try to find a solution.  When I was able to find a solution on my own, it wasn't always the best code, but it got the job done, and that's what learning to refactor is for!

I think it will depend on the makeup of our next group, but I'd like to look into different ways of making sure everyone has a good handle on how the code works without necessarily doing everything as a big group.  Given our group makeup this time, I think that was the best way forward, but I think you can split off into pairs working on different parts of a project without sacrificing knowledge of your code base.  Given how we approached the makeup of our group, I don't think we were actually a lot more productive than a pair of programmers would be.  We may have picked up maybe 25% extra efficiency, but we didn't double our output with double the programmers involved.

All in all, this week was exhilarating.  Our team came together and really hammered through the home stretch of our project, and I have done more outside of class to try to connect with the community.  I went to the Women Who Code event on Wednesday and met some really cool people, some newbies like myself and some women who have been in the industry for years.  It was also great to meet people at the Thoughtbot Drinkup - I finally feel like I have enough of a handle on programming that I can carry on a real conversation, whereas just a few weeks ago everything still had a tendency to feel like Greek to me.

I've also been thinking a lot lately on what I can do to get other women from non-tech backgrounds interested in programming.  I'd like to volunteer for RailsBridge and talked to Desi of DevChix about that.  I wonder what else I can do to reach out to women who are intimidated by programming or think they can't do it - obviously the women at RailsBridge have committed to dipping their toes in the water, but I want to reach out to people who are at the place I was at a year go, when I thought my brain 'didn't work like that' and that I'd be really out of place with my background.  I'm not sure what the best way to do that is, other than evangelizing to my friends and writing about my experience, and keeping an open door to other women who have questions.
