---
layout: post
title: "Feed Engine Week 1"
date: 2013-05-10 11:06 -06:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/05/feed-engine-week-1
tags: [feed engine, gSchool]
---

The thing I'm most excited about with my FeedEngine project is that once it's finished, I'll actually want to use it.  We're building a group travel blog that lets you integrate the Twitter, Instagram, and Foursquare activities for all travelers within a trip.  I really love to travel and usually am pretty poor about documenting my travels aside from taking pictures and posting them to Facebook when I get home, so this is a product I will actually use.  I'm sure other people who want to document a group trip in this way would like to use it as well - although to be honest, I don't think it's a bad product for just a solo trip either.

One thing I am going to be cautious on with this project is that from everyone I talked to at Hungry Academy, this was their hardest project.  We have three weeks to get it done, but I'm conscious of how quickly that due date catches up to you.  One thing my team is doing is that we have some ideas in the back of our mind of functionality we would like to create, but we're not going to start building it at all until the base functionality is completed and we're sure we have the time to put into the extra features before the project is due - we're full assing a small set of features instead of half assing a large set.

For this project, I'm working with another team member on the front end.  So far, I really haven't enjoyed working on the front end in projects - it feels tedious and mind numbing to me, so I've tended to work on the back end, which I strongly prefer.  I'm trying to take myself out of my comfort zone a little so that I can learn more of the front end, try to use some of the jQuery I learned, and just get the basics down.  As much as I really don't want a job focusing on front end development, the reality is that most jobs will touch it to some degree, and I want to know the basics for when that does happen.  I also feel pretty lucky in that this is part of the project I will probably be able to work with Brock on when I get stuck - we're far enough in Rails that he has no idea what's going on, so I haven't been able to work with him on questions, and that's one of the things I miss from when we were just learning Ruby.  It was fun to sit down and pair/troubleshoot with him, and I should be able to do that with him with the front end.  On the other hand, I'm hoping to finish up the nuts and bolts of the front end so that I can do some of the back end code for this project as well.

Another thing that's on the back of my mind as we head nearer and nearer to graduation is finding a job once gSchool is complete.  If possible, I'd really like to stick around in Denver; if I can't find anything here, Portland is at the top of my list.  Aside from geography, I'm simultaneously nervous and excited about finding a company that's a good fit for me.  When looking at a company, one of the things that will be at the top of my list is finding a company that values ongoing learning for their newer hires.  I have learned so much in this program and still have 10 weeks left, but I know that I'll still have so much to learn and fine tune when I'm done, and I want to be in an atmosphere that is understanding of that.  Also, just at a base level, I want to work with people I get along with and that communicate well.  I've been in jobs where everyone gets in, puts their head down, no one talks to each other, and then you go home - that's a really awful environment.  I think there's a stereotype that that's what programmers do, but so far I've found it to be completely untrue.

I'm hoping to work at a company that has a decent sized dev team - I'm not yet comfortable enough in my skills that I feel ready to work at a small startup where I'm one of two or three people writing code.  I'd also really like to find a place that's laid back, where there is opportunity to move up with the company and work on more complex projects as my skills improve, and lets me draw on the soft skills I've built up from my previous life before I started gSchool.  It's not the number one focus of mine, but I also am looking at a decent compensation package commensurate with my skills and the previous experience I bring with me.

From talking with others in the program, I think we're all a little nervous and very excited to see where we all end up in three months.  At the end of the day, I'm going to value my intuition - when I interviewed with LivingSocial, I knew it was the right job for me at the time when my face hurt from smiling after I left the interview.  I can't put my finger on it, but it's this electric feeling where things just feel like they're the missing puzzle piece - that's what I want.
