---
layout: post
title: "The Passionate Programmer Reading Group 1"
date: 2013-02-03 15:49 -07:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/02/the-passionate-programmer-reading-group-1
tags: [gSchool, reading group]
---

Be the worst.  This goes against everything most of us were taught, and puts us squarely outside of our comfort zone.  It can be intimidating to be in a group of people all more knowledgable than you are, and it's easy to second guess yourself if you happen to be the one that's less skilled than everyone else.  You're supposed to take every opportunity to shine (be it individually or as a group) and to show it, and I think most of us naturally like being in groups where we're comfortable in the knowledge that we're towards the top of the talent.  Be the worst is the tip that resonanted most strongly with me in reading the first half of TPP and I think it relates well to my next six months.  I knew gSchool was going to be a challenge and take me squarely outside of my comfort zone by pushing me every single day, but I would agree that 9 times out of 10, this is where you're going to get your most serious development and experience.  Especially if you're lucky enough to be in an environment where those around you are helpful and willing to lend a hand, there's no reason not to be the worst.

A tip that has surfaced from my past experiences is that it's always a good idea to get to know how your business works.  This sounds simple, but at my last job, the business was fairly huge (1,000 of us in DC alone) and it was difficult to know all the different parts of the business.  Many people complained that they felt siloed in our department, but didn't do too much about it.  Though it was a small step, I always took part whenever there was an opportunity to shadow another department in the company and did my best to attend presentations/workshop on what other business units did (side note: it was one of these workshops that really lit the spark for my interest in gSchool!).  Even when there didn't seem to be a ton of overlap between the department I was shadowing and my own, I always found at least some small tweak that I could make in my job to make it easier on the other department.  When I was promoted to manage the team I was a member of, I worked with two other managers in other departments to educate our teams on each others' roles.  This led not only to stronger working relationships between the teams, but cut duplicative efforts, saving everyone valuable time.  Even if you aren't able to completely wrap your head around the entire business if you work at a large company, I think it's always worth it to take even a small step outside of your own department.

When I was reading in part I of the book on becoming a generalist, I agreed with the sentiment but was reminded of a recent past experience that I thought put a little asterisk here as cautionary advice.  I just recently watched a friend passed up for a promotion she very much deserved because she knew and executed so much of what her department did that wasn't in her primary function that she would have been too difficult to replace - even when she left for vacation, her department visibly suffered.  In general I agree with this sentiment, and again don't think you can learn too much about an organization overall, but I do think it helps if you in turn help cultivate your knowledge throughout your organization and never make yourself so much of a generalist that you're irreplaceable in this way.  As Chad mentions later on in the book, especially on a team, it's never a good idea if your team couldn't replicate your work if they had to.

I think the tip I'm going to struggle with for the next few months is learning new languages and processes (outside of the gSchool curriculum) due to a sheer lack of time.  Once I have completed the program, I think my focus will likely be on developing my Rails skills to take it to the next level, but long term I do think it's a good idea to diversify your portfolio of skills without attempting to be an expert in all of them.
