---
layout: post
title: "Sales Engine Wrap-up"
date: 2013-02-22 09:06 -07:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/02/sales-engine-wrap-up
tags: [gSchool, sales engine]
---

I still can't believe it's only been a week and a half since we started Sales Engine.  Looking back, it feels like three weeks have been packed into a week and a half.  I remember when I started the project, I felt awful - I struggled to start, required a ton of guidance, and didn't feel like I understood my code very well.  I felt very defeated during parts of that first week.  Now that we're done, I feel great - the weekend and second week went much more smoothly for me - the logic came a little bit easier, and when, like our warm-up exercises, I got the logic down but had some hiccups with execution, I felt less reserved about asking for help.  I think it has helped to watch our instructors work on warm-up exercises in front of the class and see that they, too, get input from the other instructors.  I guess it's taken the stigma out of it a bit.  The last part of the project, after thinking on it overnight and working for a while, I didn't know how to start, and felt comfortable asking for guidance instead of spinning my wheels and feeling frustrated like I would have before.

I also think back to Passionate Programmer, when Chad talks about how explaining something can help you understand what you're doing on a deeper level than just writing the code.  I also found that to be the case a few times in the second half of this project, when I had completed code and was explaining it to someone else.  I didn't always explain it in the best way that clicked immediately with them, but it felt good to help other people and I really did find I even understood it better myself when I was explaining how and why I had written the code I did.  I also found throughout the project that I liked working in a pair more and more.  I was able to bounce ideas off someone, talk problems out, I was held accountable to explain what I was doing, and I couldn't waste too much time futzing on something I knew I didn't know - it wasn't just my time I was wasting.  It was good to have a second set of hands to help and a second set of eyes to ask 'why did you do that?  Are you sure you don't need to do this instead?'  It also felt great to share in the happiness of completing the project, made that much sweeter by the frustration we shared along the way.

I do wonder if I had to complete the project all over again, if I could without help.  I think at this point I would not be able to do it completely un-aided, but I felt the repetition inherent in this project really helped me, because there were certain things that I did so many times, it sunk in way deeper than if I had only done it once or twice, such as the relationships portion of the project.  I do still think I need practice on the business intelligence-type portion; the way objects interacted in the relationship iteration was pretty straightforward and only took one or two hops between objects.  The business intelligence was a little more complicated - objects got up in each others business, and I think I could learn that component better before moving on.  It was my intention this weekend to go through all of my code to write what each method does to help with this, but it looks like we may be doing that this afternoon in class.

So... first real project is finished.  Do I feel like a developer?  Answer is still no.  I feel like my confidence went up a bit towards the end of this project, and I'm still in awe of how much I've learned in only one month, but I still had a ton of questions and things I didn't know how to do with this project.  I'm still learning how OO programming works and don't have all the concepts down.  It doesn't feel natural to me yet.  I think that's when I'll feel like a developer - when the language feels more natural, and I can start to 'think in Ruby'.  I remember feeling like I was starting to make progress in learning French (before a semester in Japan learning Japanese wiped it all out) when I could think in French, even if basic.  Once I get to that point with programming, I think I'll feel like a developer.  Until then, I'm an enthusiastic learner and really excited to get to that day.  I do still feel like I'm on the right path though and this program was a good decision for me.  I still get so excited when I figure something out, especially if it's on my own, but even if I need help.  It feels exhilarating to me to look at this project (which I know is small in terms of what we'll be doing later on, but felt pretty monumental in the moment), see it run, and think Yeah, I built that.  There's a certain je ne sais quoi, but I feel a rush when I'm writing code and learn something new or figure something out, whether it's a warm-up exercise or a big project like this.  I'm still waiting for a lot of 'a-ha' moments, but I think my biggest one so far is how much I like doing this.  I really can't wait til my skill level catches up.
