---
layout: post
title: "Store Engine Midpoint Retrospective"
date: 2013-03-29 09:02 -06:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2013/03/store-engine-midpoint-retrospective
tags: [gSchool, store engine]
---

I think this week has been most interesting from the perspective of learning to work with others in new ways.  Both from the perspective of the increased emphasis on pairing and the larger groups, I feel I've learned a lot.

To start, I've gotten a lot out of the structured pairing we've done.  I've done pairing before, but the more structured environment is making me a better pair programmer.  If it's not structured, I feel like it's easy for one person or the other to take over, and not really do pairing.  The modified ping pong pairing has been good.  It's also been helpful to look at how other groups are approaching the questions of Store Engine, and take some of their awesome ideas or lessons they have learned, and incorporate them into our project.  The one trap that was easy to fall into though is discussing the project and talking about Well my group did this, and not doing enough coding, which I'd like to avoid next time.  It's definitely helpful to have that conversation and I learned a ton, but I would really like to work on my core skills of coding in a pair.  I think it might almost be more helpful to not work on our actual projects but a dummy project; this way you avoid long discussions of project organization or implementation, and you're also not caught in an awkward point of your project that's difficult for someone who hasn't been working on it to jump into.

Working in a group of four has been a lot different from working in a pair for this project as well.  I knew the organization was going to be a little different and we'd really have to make sure our communication was open to avoid duplicative work or systems that didn't interact together in the correct way, but it's also more of a challenge with project vision and meshing personalities as well - I hadn't really taken into account how difficult that aspect might be.  I definitely think we ended the week on a smoother note than we started it; I think after some team discussions everyone has a better appreciation that we are coming in with different skills and experience, but we're all a team and no one person makes decisions for everyone.  There's also been a deeper appreciation for, when there is a conflict in a direction we should go, having a respectful discussion of why we should go in a given direction, and coming to a consensus that way.  It might have been a little bumpy at first, but I think it's benefitted all of us - we're going to be in contact with a lot of different personalities and need to work in groups throughout our career, so it's great to learn how to work through that to deliver a quality project that everyone understands now.

In that vein, I've really liked our group's vision from the get go that even if we're working more slowly than other groups, we're not moving on til everyone understands what's going on.  This has meant that we've had several coding sessions where all four of us are in a conference room, hooked up to a TV.  Without question this has slowed the project down, but I would prefer that to having two people in the group not understand how a shopping cart is built and how the code works.  I don't know how feasible that is in the working world, but as we're learning, I think it's benefitted the group.  This seems like it's the trickiest part of the project though, and with this out of the way, I'm thinking this weekend and next week we'll be able to get a lot of code out in pairs.

We still have a lot to do, but I think at the end of the day we'll deliver a quality project.  I'm really excited to see this all come together and to celebrate as a team.

So far, Rails has been interesting.  I'm getting over my initial shock of how much it does for you on the back end, but I still feel like we're not done getting acquainted.  There's still a lot of code I look into, and I ask Wait, where is that method coming from?, to find out Oh, that's a Rails thing.  So there's still a lot to learn, but I like the structured nature of REST, and I'm really enjoying learning the Capybara testing.  My big complaint is that I don't think (correct me if I'm wrong) there is rspec pride for Rails.  Somehow testing is just plain better when you see those fabulous little rainbow dots.

I also wonder how much my feelings will change when we get into the relational component of our project and the different roles of admin, regular user, and unregistered guest.  Stay tuned, but I'm hoping this won't be too terrible in terms of either understanding it or implementing it.  The addition to our team of someone who is experienced with Rails and knows how the parts work has definitely been helpful though when there are questions; no one can ever say they didn't get a thorough explanation.

The biggest thing I'm trying to absorb is how all everything works so I can extract it to different contexts.  The first few Ruby projects we worked on, I felt like I understood how everything worked in the confines of the project, but trying to apply that knowledge to something new just didn't translate well, which to me says I didn't really learn it fully.  I really want to build an amazing site for my sister, whether it's a project I can work on for school or something I do afterwards, and of course I want to have a firm grasp on what I'm doing when I am employed afterward, so I'm trying to focus on that when I'm learning.
