---
layout: post
title: "Moving On"
date: 2014-08-10 04:31 -05:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2014/08/moving-on
tags: [moving, adventure, marriage, the past]
---

In the 7+ years since I've left college, the longest I've lived in one apartment is two years; I lived longer in my college apartment.  On Monday I move into my eighth place.  It feels like a lifetime ago I moved into my first place after leaving Michigan, a shared house in Petworth, DC where my room was so tiny I had to push the mattress to the other side of the bed frame to open the drawers of my dresser.  I paid more for that room than I did for my 850 square foot apartment in East Lansing.  I didn't care.  I was so excited to start my life, discover the city, figure out who I was without the crutch and comfort of my friends or my family.  It was a new adventure.

Compared with what we have now, I didn't have a lot back then; a few pieces of furniture, clothes, pots, pans, dishes.  A lot more of my college apartment joined me in DC when Brock and I moved in together six months after the move to DC.  I've been moving these possessions around with me each move.  I'm fairly confident I could guide anyone through reassembling our futon in my sleep.

Inevitably, we acquired new belongings in each new apartment.  Our apartment now includes an impressive variety of furniture from Ikea or Craigslist and years of purchases from Bed Bath and Beyond for each new apartment.  We got a dog a few years in, and I learned one needs a surprising amount of stuff for a 13 pound furball.  New clothes, new books (I'm still mad at myself for selling most of my books back in my freshman year of college, and have never gotten rid of a book since), new furniture, new electronics.  We keep moving to bigger places, and always somehow manage to acquire stuff to fill the extra spaces.

And each move, I've purged things I no longer needed or wanted.  Bags and bags of clothes, a TV, backpacks, houseplants, and lawn furniture are just a snippet of my stuff that's floating around out there somewhere, maybe still being used by their new owners, not to mention the pure junk I just threw away.  On the whole we tend to have more stuff with each move than what we started with, but it helps to keep the growth in check.

But this move feels different from the others.  It somehow feels more consequential than the move from DC to Denver to start a whole new career and leave everything I'd built up behind.  As I was packing tonight, I realized that even through seven previous rounds of purges, I'd kept a ton of unused things from my college years.  I found a number of shirts and a pair of shoes I'd bought to pick up guys in the bars and clubs during my study abroad at Cambridge.  Jewelry from body piercings long healed shut.  Years of accumulation of eye shadow and lipstick even though I haven't even put on mascara in almost two years and hardly wore more than that after graduation.  Perfume from various trips to Europe during high school and college that have been untouched for years.  The University of Cambridge hoodie I was so proud of and couldn't bear to part with over a decade after I said goodbye to Gonville and Caius.

With the exception of one bottle of perfume, it's all gone now.  I don't know if I kept all of it for so long because I had really thought I'd use it again, or if it was just a reminder of the life I used to have.  Either way, it's time to let go and move on.

Especially after getting rid of the sentimental remnants that I really only look back on when moving, I'm struck by how little I use most of our possessions on a daily basis, and how much less of that I really need to be 'mine'.  As long as I have my clothes, my computer, my toiletries, and my medications, there's not much else I really need that has to be mine.

Maybe it's turning 30 in less than a month and realizing that my window of time for all the adventures I still want to have in life is narrowing, maybe it's realizing my marriage has slowly turned into a friendship that's at a shit or get off the pot moment, maybe it's frustration with where I'm mentally, emotionally at right now, but I feel like I'm at a turning point.  I'm scared shitless not knowing where Brock and I will be six months from now and filled with anxiety that I didn't do enough with my 20s.  It feels like the end of something big, and the beginning of something big; the path just hasn't been fully laid yet.  No matter what happens, I'm determined to leave the past in the past, and start this next stage in life as a new adventure I fully intend to make the most of.
