---
layout: post
title: "Unpacking memories"
date: 2015-04-26 14:54 -05:00
comments: true
sharing: true
permalink: /2015/04/unpacking-memories
tags: [divorce, marriage, restart, moving on, memories]
---

I just went through my 13th move in the past 12 years, in my 4th city. At a certain point in there, moving got to feeling pretty routine. Some moves were harder than others, especially when I was moving between cities and leaving behind friends and the sense of belonging I'd built up, but I can't remember a move I've taken before that has brought up so many different emotions and memories.

The closest thing to it was when I moved from DC to Denver. I was leaving behind five and a half years in the city I had moved to right after college where I had met my husband and a fucking amazing circle of friends, started my career, and had some of the most memorable experiences of my life. It felt like I'd fit so much living into, when you really look at it, a relatively short period of time and even though I knew it was time to move on, it was still hard as hell. There was a last minute change of plans when I left - a family friend died a few days before Brock and I were set to move, so I had to leave in the middle of packing up our apartment to fly back to Michigan for the funeral, and then meet Brock in Denver. I remember starting to cry while I was hugging Brock goodbye in our apartment, getting into an Uber, and totally losing it before we'd even hit the first major avenue on our way to the airport. Seeing the city go by one last time while it was still my city and remembering all the things I'd done over the years, thinking about everything I was leaving behind, was so painful. I was excited to start a new career in Denver, and the self-importance and pretentiousness that's prevalent in DC had been wearing on me for a while, but I was going to miss the life I had built up. And yet I knew even then that Brock and I had already begun our slow drift apart; I was leaving DC alone more than just physically. I remember hoping the fresh start in Denver would help us get closer again.

As strong as my emotions were during that move, the sheer number of different emotions I've felt during this move has been staggering in comparison. I am still kind of in awe of the array of feelings it's possible to experience simultaneously. I'm still at the point in the divorce process where I'm spending a lot of time in self-reflection and working out who I am and who I want to be and how I want to move on with life. It seems like every few weeks I have a new light go off and some insight makes a few more things click into place about what makes me tick. My feelings continuously grow more nuanced, but at any given time I can usually pinpoint upwards of half a dozen emotions I'm feeling, sometimes contradictory.

Luckily by the time it came to start packing up in the coach house, I was already well into the acceptance stage of grieving the end of the marriage. For my previous eight moves I had had Brock by my side; even for the moves that happened after things went sour for us, he was still there and it was comforting to feel him next to me. I've found I'm adjusting well to being on my own, but I cannot imagine what moving and confronting all those old memories that is always an inevitable byproduct would have felt like if I was still cycling through the earlier stages of grief.

But one thing I hadn't expected was to have so many memories of the past come up for me once I was here in the new place. I'd already come face to face with old memories, both of the good times and the not so good times, when I had been packing up. Of course I still think of everything that happened as I move on, but especially since the move it's just felt like time to focus more on where I'm at now and what's in front of me rather than continue to focus on unpacking the past. The first few weeks in the new place fit with that pretty well - it felt really freeing to live on my own again, I liked making the new apartment feel like home to me, and it was great to explore Andersonville and get the first taste of my new life; it somehow hadn't felt like a new life while I was still in the coach house - there were too many memories and too much constraint living in an uncomfortable roommate situation.

But as I've unpacked there's been a few random things I've come across that have brought up all sorts of memories and feelings I hadn't been expecting. I thought I had sorted through most of my belongings pretty well while packing up in the old place, but there were still things that I'd thrown into boxes without really going through that I have come across here.

This afternoon I came across a set of purple sheets that I bought when I moved to DC. These sheets have been through the wringer and it shows - you could almost read a newspaper through them. After Brock and I moved in together and upgraded to a queen bed, everyone who visited us and slept on our futon used those sheets. And maybe it's weird, but when I found them, all I could think about was all those visits from friends. And then I thought about all those people who were Brock's friends that I would likely never see again. And then I thought about one of my closest friends, Heather, who had taken the rest of the bedding I'd had to go along with the purple sheets and how she'd moved back to Australia years ago and how our friendship had changed, but I was still hoping to visit her this fall in Hungary where she'll be moving, and how the last time I saw her after not seeing her for years it didn't feel like years had passed and things just slipped into place, and how I hoped that's how it will be with Brock when we go for long stretches without seeing each other. All from some raggedy purple sheets.

And last week while I was unpacking the stuff that had been in my files I found a love note Brock wrote to me from before we got married. It was one sentence long and wouldn't look at all profound if anyone else had happened across it; hell, I'm certain I hadn't thought of it as profound when I originally got it. But it was from back before we realized how different our needs were when a sweet little note on [some random Wednesday](http://waitbutwhy.com/2014/02/pick-life-partner-part-2.html) was still a thing. At this point I've become pretty comfortable experiencing unexpected emotions. It doesn't happen with much frequency like it did in the first few months of our separation, but every once in a while there's still a real zinger that comes up and forces me to sit down and just take some time in earnest to think and feel and process. It's hard to look at that note - not some grandiose profession of love tied to a holiday or special occasion, but a simple statement from someone going about his everyday routine who wanted to take a few seconds to let his partner know he was thinking about her and loved her - and not feel a sense of loss.

I think that's what we're all looking for when you really get to the heart of it - not the fairytale of monthly romantic vacations to exotic destinations and non-stop excitement and candle-lit dinners followed by mind-blowing sex every night. At least for me, if processing the divorce has given me any insight as to what I really want, it's that I want to be with someone that I can share 20,000 ordinary days with, and day 13,387 into that, I still want to want to take a few seconds out of my day to let him know I'm thinking about him and I love him. No weekly treatises on how much he means to me - he'd already know. It's the little things. And the more I look back on Brock and me, the more I see that was never really possible for us for a lifetime. When you get to the root of our individual natures, I need emotional intimacy and a close connection with a partner; Brock needs emotional independence and more distance. We were never going to be able to give each other what we really needed.

So I guess that's the heart of the bittersweetness and tenderness I feel when I look back at my time with Brock. For a time, before we'd really had a chance to experience life and what it really means to spend thousands of ordinary days together, we both thought we had the connection we needed. Missing what I felt when I thought that's what we had, that's a part of what I felt when I came across his note. Knowing that despite Brock being a wonderful person that I connected with in so many ways, I'd never be able to give him what he needed and he'd never be able to give me what I needed - that also contributed to the sense of loss I felt.

I was never naive enough to think that all you need is love. If I'd fallen head over heels for a deeply religious social conservative who wanted to settle down in the suburbs and have half a dozen kids, it wouldn't matter how much I loved him - it would be a complete non-starter for me. But when I met Brock and we clicked so quickly and we shared so many core beliefs and values, I thought that all that along with love was all we needed. And if core beliefs and values, love, and effort to make it all work were all you needed, we'd be happy together for the rest of our lives.

At least I know better now, and more importantly, I know myself better. I've unpacked a whole hell of a lot the past few months, and as time has gone on, I find I'm able to reflect on my marriage and the past few years of my life while looking to the future, and with a sense of peace rather than pain. But it seems that even as I move forward, there will still be unexpected things I find every now and again that will bring up old memories and, if I'm lucky, deeper understandings.
